Psalm 118

1 Thank the Lord, because he is good. His love never ends.
2 Let Israel say, his love never ends.
3 Let the family of Aaron say, his love never ends.
4 Let those who respect the Lord say, his love never ends.
5 I called to the Lord when I was in trouble. He answered me and gave me a safe, open space.
6 The Lord is with me. I won't be afraid. What can anyone do to me?
7 The Lord is on my side with those who help me. So I will see my wish come true against those who hate me.
8 It's better to trust the Lord than to rely on people.
9 It's better to trust the Lord than to rely on rulers.
10 All the nations surrounded me. But by the Lord's power I will defeat them.
11 They surrounded me, yes, they surrounded me. But by the Lord's power I will defeat them.
12 They swarmed around me like bees. They burned out like a fire of thorns. But by the Lord's power I will defeat them.
13 You pushed me hard to make me fall. But the Lord helped me.
14 The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become the one who saves me.
15 The sound of joy and rescue is in the homes of the good people. The Lord's right hand acts with power.
16 The Lord's right hand is lifted high. The Lord's right hand acts with power.
17 I will not die, but live. I will tell others what the Lord has done.
18 The Lord disciplined me hard. But he did not let me die.
19 Open the gates of what is right for me. I will go in and praise the Lord.
20 This is the Lord's gate. Good people will enter through it.
21 I will praise you. You heard me and became my savior.
22 The stone that the builders rejected has become the most important corner stone.
23 This is the Lord's doing. It is amazing to us.
24 This is the day the Lord has made. We will be happy and glad in it.
25 Please save us, Lord. Lord, please give us success.
26 Blessed is the one who comes in the Lord's name. We have blessed you from the Lord's house.
27 The Lord is God, and he has shown us light. Tie the sacrifice with ropes to the altar's corners.
28 You are my God, and I will praise you. You are my God, I will lift you up high.
29 Thank the Lord, because he is good. His love never ends.
