Psalm 102

1 Listen to my prayer, Lord, and let my cry come to you.
2 Don't hide your face from me when I'm in trouble. Pay attention to me. When I call, answer me quickly.
3 My days disappear like smoke. My bones burn like a fire.
4 My heart is broken and dry like grass. I forget to eat my food.
5 My bones cling to my skin because I keep groaning.
6 I'm like a pelican in the wild. I'm like an owl in the desert.
7 I stay awake, like a sparrow sitting alone on a roof.
8 My enemies insult me all day. Those who are angry with me team up against me.
9 I have eaten ashes like bread. I mixed my drink with tears.
10 You were angry with me. You lifted me up, then threw me down.
11 My days fade like a shrinking shadow. I am dry like grass.
12 But you, Lord, will last forever. People will remember you for all generations.
13 You will rise up and show mercy to Zion. The time to be good to her has come.
14 Your followers take joy in her stones and care for her dust.
15 Then the nations will fear the Lord's name. All the kings of the earth will respect his glory.
16 When the Lord rebuilds Zion, he will show his glory.
17 He will hear the prayer of the poor. He won't ignore their prayers.
18 This will be written for the next generation. The people born later will praise the Lord.
19 He has looked down from his holy place. From heaven, the Lord saw the earth.
20 He heard the groans of prisoners. He came to free those sentenced to die.
21 They will tell of the Lord's name in Zion. They will praise him in Jerusalem.
22 When all people and kingdoms gather to serve the Lord.
23 He made me weak on my journey. He cut my days short.
24 I said, "My God, don't take me away in the middle of my life. Your years go on forever."
25 Long ago you made the earth's foundation. The heavens are made by your hands.
26 They will perish, but you will last. They will wear out like old clothes. You will change them like a garment, and they will be replaced.
27 But you never change. Your years have no end.
28 The children of your people will continue. Their descendants will be secure with you.
