Psalm 105

1 oh give thanks to the Lord; call upon his name: make known his deeds among the
people.
2 Sing to him, sing psalms to him: talk you of all his wondrous works.
3 Glory you in his holy name: let the heart of them rejoice that seek the Lord.
4 Seek the Lord, and his power: seek his face evermore.
5 Remember his marvellous works that he has done; his wonders,
and the judgments of his mouth;
6 oh you seed of Abraham his servant, you children of Jacob his chosen.
7 He is the Lord our God: his judgments are in all the earth.
8 He has remembered his covenant always, the word which he commanded to a thousand
generations.
9 Which covenant he made with Abraham, and his oath to Isaac;
10 Confirmed the same to Jacob for a law, and to Israel for an eternal
covenant:
11 say, to you will I give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance:
12 When they were but a few men in number; yea, very few, and strangers in it.
13 When they went from one nation to another, from one kingdom to another people;
14 He suffered no man to do them wrong: yea, he reproved kings for their sakes;
15 say, Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no harm.
16 Moreover he called for a famine upon the land: he brake the whole staff of bread.
17 He sent a man before them, even Joseph, who was sold for a servant:
18 Whose feet they hurt with fetters: he was laid in iron:
19 Until the time that his word came: the word of the Lord tried him.
20 The king sent and loosed him; even the ruler of the people, and let him go free.
21 He made him Lord of his house, and ruler of all his substance:
22 To bind his princes at his pleasure; and teach his senators wisdom.
23 Israel also came into Egypt; and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham.
24 He increased his people greatly; and made them stronger than their enemies.
25 He turned their heart to hate his people, to deal subtilly with his servants.
26 He sent Moses his servant; and Aaron whom he had chosen.
27 They showed his signs among them, and wonders in the land of Ham.
28 He sent darkness, and made it dark; and they rebelled not against his word.
29 He turned their waters into blood, and killed their fish.
30 Their land brought forth frogs in abundance, in the chambers of their kings.
31 He spoke, and there came divers sorts of flies, and lice in all their regions.
32 He gave them hail for rain, and flaming fire in their land.
33 He smote their vines also and their fig trees; and brake the trees of their
regions.
34 He spoke, and the locusts came, and caterpillers, and that without number,
35 Did eat up all the herbs in their land, and devoured the fruit of their ground.
36 He smote also all the firstborn in their land, the chief of all their power.
37 He brought them forth also with silver and gold: and there was not one feeble person
among their tribes.
38 Egypt was glad when they departed: for the fear of them fell upon them.
39 He spread a cloud for a covering; and fire to give light in the night.
40 The people asked, and he brought quails, and satisfied them with the bread of
heaven.
41 He opened the rock, and the waters gushed out; they ran in the dry places like a
river.
42 For he remembered his holy promise, and Abraham his servant.
43 He brought forth his people with joy, and his chosen with gladness:
44 Gave them the lands of the nations: and they inherited the labour of the people;
45 That they might observe his rules, and keep his laws. thank you the Lord.
