Psalm 69

1 Save me, oh God; for the waters are come in to my soul.
2 I sink in deep mire, where there is no standing: I am come into deep waters,
where the floods overflow me.
3 I am weary of my crying: my throat is dried: mine eyes fail while I wait for my
God.
4 They that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of mine head: they that would
destroy me, being mine enemies wrongfully, are mighty: then I restored that which I took
not away.
5 oh God, you know my foolishness; and my sins are not hid from you.
6 Let not them that wait on you, oh Lord God of hosts,
be ashamed for my sake: let not those that seek you be confounded for my sake,
O God of Israel.
7 Because for your sake I have borne reproach; shame has covered my face.
8 I am become a stranger to my brethren, and an alien to my mother’s children.
9 For the zeal of your house has eaten me up; and the reproaches of them that reproached
you are fallen upon me.
10 When I wept, and chastened my soul with fasting, that was to my reproach.
11 I made sackcloth also my garment; and I became a proverb to them.
12 They that sit in the gate speak against me; and I was the song of the drunkards.
13 But as for me, my prayer is to you, oh Lord, in an acceptable time: oh God,
in the multitude of your mercy hear me, in the truth of your salvation.
14 Deliver me out of the mire, and let me not sink: let me be delivered from them that
hate me, and out of the deep waters.
15 Let not the waterflood overflow me, neither let the deep swallow me up,
and let not the pit shut her mouth upon me.
16 Hear me, oh Lord; for your love is good: turn to me according to the
multitude of your tender mercies.
17 Hide not your face from your servant; for I am in trouble: hear me speedily.
18 Draw near to my soul, and save it: deliver me because of mine enemies.
19 You have known my reproach, and my shame, and my dishonour: mine adversaries are all
before you.
20 Reproach has broken my heart; and I am full of heaviness: and I looked for some to
take pity, but there was none; and for comforters, but I found none.
21 They gave me also gall for my meat; and in my thirst they gave me vinegar to
drink.
22 Let their table become a snare before them: and that which should have been for their
welfare, let it become a trap.
23 Let their eyes be darkened, that they see not; and make their loins continually to
shake.
24 Pour out your indignation upon them, and let your wrathful anger take hold of
them.
25 Let their habitation be desolate; and let none live in their tents.
26 For they persecute him whom you have smitten; and they talk to the grief of those whom
you have wounded.
27 Add wrong to their wrong: and let them not come into your goodness.
28 Let them be blotted out of the book of the living,
and not be written with the righteous.
29 But I am poor and sad: let your rescue, oh God, set me up on high.
30 I will thank the name of God with a song, and will magnify him with thanksgiving.
31 This also will please the Lord better than an ox or bullock that has horns and
hoofs.
32 The humble will see this, and be glad: and your heart will live that seek God.
33 For the Lord hears the poor, and despises not his prisoners.
34 Let the heaven and earth thank him, the seas, and every thing that moves in it.
35 For God will save Zion, and will build the cities of Judah: that they may live there,
and have it in possession.
36 The seed also of his servants will inherit it: and they that love his name will live
therein.
