Psalm 119

1 Blessed are the undefiled in the way, who walk in the law of the Lord.
2 Blessed are they that keep his promises, and that seek him with the whole heart.
3 They also do no wrong: they walk in his ways.
4 You have commanded us to keep your instructions carefully.
5 oh that my ways were directed to keep your rules!
6 Then will I not be ashamed, when I have respect to all your commandments.
7 I will thank you with uprightness of heart, when I will have learned your good
judgments.
8 I will keep your rules: oh forsake me not utterly.
9 Wherewithal will a young man cleanse his way? by taking heed thereto according to your
word.
10 With my whole heart have I sought you: oh let me not wander from your commandments.
11 Your word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not wrong against you.
12 Blessed are you, oh Lord: teach me your rules.
13 With my lips have I declared all the judgments of your mouth.
14 I have rejoiced in the way of your promises, as much as in all riches.
15 I will meditate in your instructions, and have respect to your ways.
16 I will delight myself in your rules: I will not forget your word.
17 Deal bountifully with your servant, that I may live, and keep your word.
18 Open you mine eyes, that I may look wondrous things out of your law.
19 I am a stranger in the earth: hide not your commandments from me.
20 My soul breaks for the longing that it has to your judgments at all times.
21 You have rebuked the proud that are cursed, which do err from your commandments.
22 Remove from me reproach and contempt; for I have kept your promises.
23 Princes also did sit and speak against me: but your servant did meditate in your
statutes.
24 Your promises also are my delight and my counsellors.
25 My soul cleaves to the dust: quicken you me according to your word.
26 I have declared my ways, and you heard me: teach me your rules.
27 Make me to understand the way of your instructions: so will I talk of your wondrous
works.
28 My soul melts for heaviness: strengthen you me according to your word.
29 Remove from me the way of lying: and grant me your law graciously.
30 I have chosen the way of truth: your judgments have I laid before me.
31 I have stuck to your promises: oh Lord, put me not to shame.
32 I will run the way of your commandments, when you will enlarge my heart.
33 Teach me, oh Lord, the way of your rules; and I will keep it to the end.
34 Give me understanding, and I will keep your law;
yea, I shall observe it with my whole heart.
35 Make me to go in the path of your commandments; for in it do I delight.
36 Incline my heart to your promises, and not to covetousness.
37 Turn away mine eyes from beholding emptiness; and quicken you me in your way.
38 Stablish your word to your servant, who is devoted to your fear.
39 Turn away my reproach which I fear: for your judgments are good.
40 look, I have longed after your instructions: quicken me in your goodness.
41 Let your kindness come also to me, oh Lord, even your rescue,
according to your word.
42 So will I have with which to answer him that reproaches me: for I trust in your
word.
43 Take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth;
for I have hoped in your judgments.
44 So will I keep your law continually always and ever.
45 I will walk at liberty: for I seek your instructions.
46 I will speak of your promises also before kings, and will not be ashamed.
47 I will delight myself in your commandments, which I have loved.
48 My hands also will I lifted up to your commandments, which I have loved;
and I will meditate in your statutes.
49 Remember the word to your servant, upon which you have caused me to hope.
50 This is my comfort in my affliction: for your word has quickened me.
51 The proud have had me greatly in derision: yet have I not declined from your law.
52 I remembered your judgments of old, oh Lord; and have comforted myself.
53 Horror has taken hold upon me because of the wicked that forsake your law.
54 Your rules have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage.
55 I have remembered your name, oh Lord, in the night, and have kept your law.
56 This I had, because I kept your instructions.
57 You are my portion, oh Lord: I have said that I would keep your words.
58 I intreated your favour with my whole heart: be kind to me according to your
word.
59 I thought on my ways, and turned my feet to your promises.
60 I made haste, and delayed not to keep your commandments.
61 The bands of the wicked have robbed me: but I have not forgotten your law.
62 At midnight I will rise to give thanks to you because of your good
judgments.
63 I am a companion of all them that fear you, and of them that keep your instructions.
64 The earth, oh Lord, is full of your mercy: teach me your rules.
65 You have dealt well with your servant, oh Lord, according to your word.
66 Teach me good judgment and knowledge: for I have believed your commandments.
67 Before I was hurt I went astray: but now have I kept your word.
68 You are good, and do good; teach me your rules.
69 The proud have forged a lie against me: but I will keep your instructions with my whole
heart.
70 Their heart is as fat as grease; but I delight in your law.
71 It is good for me that I have been hurt; that I might learn your rules.
72 The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver.
73 Your hands have made me and fashioned me: give me understanding,
that I may learn your commandments.
74 They that fear you will be glad when they see me;
because I have hoped in your word.
75 I know, oh Lord, that your judgments are right, and that you in faithfulness have
afflicted me.
76 Let, please, your kind kindness be for my comfort,
according to your word unto your servant.
77 Let your tender kindness come to me, that I may live: for your law is my delight.
78 Let the proud be ashamed; for they dealt perversely with me without a cause: but I
will meditate in your precepts.
79 Let those that fear you turn to me, and those that have known your promises.
80 Let my heart be sound in your rules; that I be not ashamed.
81 My soul faints for your rescue: but I hope in your word.
82 Mine eyes fail for your word, say, When will you comfort me?
83 For I am become like a bottle in the smoke; yet do I not forget your rules.
84 How many are the days of your servant? when will you execute judgment on them that
persecute me?
85 The proud have digged pits for me, which are not after your law.
86 All your commandments are faithful: they persecute me wrongfully; help you me.
87 They had almost consumed me upon earth; but I forsook not your instructions.
88 Quicken me after your love; so will I keep the testimony of your mouth.
89 always, oh Lord, your word is settled in heaven.
90 Your faithfulness is to all generations: you have established the earth,
and it abides.
91 They continue this day according to your ordinances: for all are your servants.
92 Unless your law had been my delights, I should then have perished in mine
affliction.
93 I will never forget your instructions: for with them you have quickened me.
94 I am your, save me: for I have sought your instructions.
95 The wicked have waited for me to destroy me: but I will consider your promises.
96 I have seen an end of all perfection: but your teaching is exceeding broad.
97 oh how I love your law! it is my meditation all the day.
98 You through your commandments have made me wiser than mine enemies: for they are ever
with me.
99 I have more understanding than all my teachers: for your promises are my
meditation.
100 I understand more than the ancients, because I keep your instructions.
101 I have refrained my feet from every evil way, that I might keep your word.
102 I have not departed from your judgments: for you have taught me.
103 How sweet are your words to my taste! yea, sweeter than honey to my mouth!
104 Through your instructions I get understanding: therefore I hate every false way.
105 Your word is a lamp to my feet, and a light to my path.
106 I have sworn, and I will perform it, that I will keep your good judgments.
107 I am hurt very much: quicken me, oh Lord, according to your word.
108 Accept, please, the freewill offerings of my mouth, oh Lord,
and teach me your judgments.
109 My soul is continually in my hand: yet do I not forget your law.
110 The wicked have laid a snare for me: yet I erred not from your instructions.
111 Your promises have I taken as an heritage always: for they are the rejoicing of
my heart.
112 I have inclined mine heart to perform your rules alway, even to the end.
113 I hate useless thoughts: but your law do I love.
114 You are my covering place and my shield: I hope in your word.
115 Depart from me, you evildoers: for I will keep the commandments of my God.
116 Uphold me according to your word, that I may live: and let me not be ashamed of my
hope.
117 Hold you me up, and I will be safe: and I will have respect to your rules
continually.
118 You have trodden down all them that err from your rules: for their deceit is
falsehood.
119 You putt away all the wicked of the earth like dross: therefore I love your
testimonies.
120 My flesh trembles for fear of you; and I am afraid of your judgments.
121 I have done judgment and justice: leave me not to mine oppressors.
122 Be surety for your servant for good: let not the proud oppress me.
123 Mine eyes fail for your rescue, and for the word of your goodness.
124 Deal with your servant according to your mercy, and teach me your rules.
125 I am your servant; give me understanding, that I may know your promises.
126 It is time for you, Lord, to work: for they have made void your law.
127 Therefore I love your commandments above gold; yea, above fine gold.
128 Therefore I esteem all your instructions concerning all things to be right;
and I hate every false way.
129 Your promises are wonderful: therefore does my soul keep them.
130 The entrance of your words gives light; it gives understanding to the simple.
131 I opened my mouth, and panted: for I longed for your commandments.
132 Look you upon me, and be kind to me, as you use to do to those that love your
name.
133 Order my steps in your word: and let not any wrong have dominion over me.
134 Deliver me from the oppression of man: so will I keep your instructions.
135 Make your face to shine upon your servant; and teach me your rules.
136 Rivers of waters run down mine eyes, because they keep not your law.
137 good are you, oh Lord, and upright are your judgments.
138 Your promises that you have commanded are good and very faithful.
139 My zeal has consumed me, because mine enemies have forgotten your words.
140 Your word is very pure: therefore your servant loves it.
141 I am small and despised: yet do not I forget your instructions.
142 Your goodness is an eternal goodness, and your law is the truth.
143 Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me: yet your commandments are my delights.
144 The goodness of your promises is eternal: give me understanding,
and I shall live.
145 I cried with my whole heart; hear me, oh Lord: I will keep your rules.
146 I cried to you; save me, and I will keep your promises.
147 I prevented the dawning of the morning, and cried: I hoped in your word.
148 Mine eyes prevent the night watches, that I might meditate in your word.
149 Hear my voice according to your love: oh Lord,
quicken me according to your judgment.
150 They draw near that follow after mischief: they are far from your law.
151 You are near, oh Lord; and all your commandments are truth.
152 Concerning your promises, I have known of old that you have founded them for
ever.
153 Consider mine affliction, and deliver me: for I do not forget your law.
154 Plead my cause, and deliver me: quicken me according to your word.
155 rescue is far from the wicked: for they seek not your rules.
156 Great are your tender kindness, oh Lord: quicken me according to your judgments.
157 Many are my persecutors and mine enemies; yet do I not decline from your
testimonies.
158 I beheld the transgressors, and was grieved; because they kept not your word.
159 Consider how I love your instructions: quicken me, oh Lord,
according to your lovingkindness.
160 Your word is true from the beginning: and every one of your good judgments
endures for ever.
161 Princes have persecuted me without a cause: but my heart stands in awe of your
word.
162 I rejoice at your word, as one that finds great spoil.
163 I hate and abhor lying: but your law do I love.
164 Seven times a day do I thank you because of your good judgments.
165 Great peace have they which love your law: and nothing will offend them.
166 Lord, I have hoped for your rescue, and done your commandments.
167 My soul has kept your promises; and I love them exceedingly.
168 I have kept your instructions and your promises: for all my ways are before you.
169 Let my cry come near before you, oh Lord: give me understanding according to your
word.
170 Let my supplication come before you: deliver me according to your word.
171 My lips will utter thank, when you have taught me your rules.
172 My tongue will speak of your word: for all your commandments are goodness.
173 Let your hand help me; for I have chosen your instructions.
174 I have longed for your rescue, oh Lord; and your law is my delight.
175 Let my soul live, and it will thank you; and let your judgments help me.
176 I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek your servant;
for I do not forget your commandments.
