Psalm 22

1 My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? why are you so far from helping me,
and from the words of my roaring?
2 oh my God, I cry in the day time, but you hear not;
and in the night season, and am not silent.
3 But you are holy, oh you that inhabit the praises of Israel.
4 Our fathers trusted in you: they trusted, and you did deliver them.
5 They cried to you, and were delivered: they trusted in you,
and were not confounded.
6 But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised of the people.
7 All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot out the lip, they shake the head,
saying,
8 He trusted on the Lord that he would deliver him: let him deliver him,
seeing he delighted in him.
9 But you are he that took me out of the womb: you did make me hope when I was upon my
mother’s breasts.
10 I was cast upon you from the womb: you are my God from my mother’s belly.
11 Be not far from me; for trouble is near; for there is none to help.
12 Many bulls have compassed me: strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round.
13 They gaped upon me with their mouths, as a ravening and a roaring lion.
14 I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint: my heart is like wax;
it is melted in the midst of my bowels.
15 My power is dried up like a potsherd; and my tongue cleaves to my jaws;
and you have brought me into the dust of death.
16 For dogs have compassed me: the assembly of the wicked have inclosed me: they pierced
my hands and my feet.
17 I may tell all my bones: they look and stare upon me.
18 They part my garments among them, and cast lots upon my vesture.
19 But be not you far from me, oh Lord: oh my power, haste you to help me.
20 Deliver my soul from the sword; my darling from the power of the dog.
21 Save me from the lion’s mouth: for you have heard me from the horns of the
unicorns.
22 I will declare your name to my brethren: in the midst of the community will I
praise you.
23 You that fear the Lord, thank him; all you the seed of Jacob, glorify him;
and fear him, all you the seed of Israel.
24 For he has not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the hurt;
neither has he hid his face from him; but when he cried unto him, he heard.
25 My thank will be of you in the great community: I will pay my vows before them
that fear him.
26 The meek will eat and be satisfied: they will thank the Lord that seek him: your
heart shall live for ever.
27 All the ends of the world will remember and turn to the Lord: and all the kindreds
of the nations shall worship before you.
28 For the kingdom is the Lord’s: and he is the governor among the nations.
29 All they that be fat upon earth will eat and worship: all they that go down to the
dust shall bow before him: and none can keep alive his own soul.
30 A seed will serve him; it will be accounted to the Lord for a generation.
31 They will come, and will declare his goodness to a people that will be born,
that he has done this.
