Psalm 139

1 Lord, you have searched me and know me inside out.
2 You know when I sit down and when I stand up. You know my thoughts even from far away.
3 You are around me when I walk and when I lie down. You know all my ways.
4 There isn't a word on my tongue that you don't know completely, Lord.
5 You have surrounded me from behind and in front. You have placed your hand on me.
6 This knowledge is too amazing for me. It is too high; I cannot reach it.
7 Where can I go to get away from your Spirit? Where can I run from you?
8 If I go up to heaven, you are there. If I make my bed in the grave, see, you are there.
9 If I fly away with the wings of the dawn and live at the farthest end of the sea.
10 Even there your hand will lead me, and your right hand will hold me.
11 If I say, "Surely the darkness will cover me," even the night will be light around me.
12 Yes, darkness doesn't hide from you. The night is as bright as day to you. Dark and light are the same to you.
13 You made my inner parts. You protected me in my mother's womb.
14 I will praise you, because I am amazingly made. Your works are wonderful, and my soul knows that very well.
15 My body was not hidden from you when I was made in secret, skillfully formed deep in the earth.
16 Your eyes saw my body even when it was not yet formed. In your book all my parts were written down, shaped over time before any of them existed.
17 How precious your thoughts are to me, God! How many there are!
18 If I tried to count them, they would be more than the sand. When I wake up, I am still with you.
19 God, you will surely destroy the wicked. So you violent people, stay away from me.
20 They speak evil against you, and your enemies misuse your name.
21 Lord, don't I hate those who hate you? Am I not sad about those who fight against you?
22 I hate them completely. I treat them as my enemies.
23 God, search me and know my heart. Test me and know my thoughts.
24 See if there is any evil in me, and lead me on the path of life forever.
