Psalm 89

1 I will sing of the kindness of the Lord always: with my mouth will I make known your
faithfulness to all generations.
2 For I have said, Mercy will be built up always: your faithfulness will you
establish in the very heavens.
3 I have made a covenant with my chosen, I have sworn to David my servant,
4 Your seed will I establish always, and build up your throne to all generations.
Selah.
5 The heavens will thank your wonders, oh Lord: your faithfulness also in the
congregation of the saints.
6 For who in the heaven can be compared to the Lord?
who among the sons of the mighty can be likened unto the LORD?
7 God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the God's people,
and to be had in reverence of all them that are about him.
8 oh Lord God of hosts, who is a strong Lord like to you?
or to your faithfulness round about you?
9 You rule the raging of the sea: when the waves of it arise, you still them.
10 You have broken Rahab in pieces, as one that is killed;
you have scattered your enemies with your strong arm.
11 The heavens are your, the earth also is your: as for the world and the fulness
thereof, you have founded them.
12 The north and the south you have created them: Tabor and Hermon will rejoice in your
name.
13 You have a mighty arm: strong is your hand, and high is your right hand.
14 Justice and judgment are the habitation of your throne: mercy and truth will go
before your face.
15 Blessed is the people that know the joyful sound: they will walk, oh Lord,
in the light of your countenance.
16 In your name will they rejoice all the day: and in your goodness will they be
exalted.
17 For you are the glory of their power: and in your favour our horn will be
exalted.
18 For the Lord is our defence; and the Holy One of Israel is our king.
19 Then you spoke in vision to your holy one, and said,
I have laid help upon one that is mighty; I have exalted one chosen out of the
people.
20 I have found David my servant; with my holy oil have I anointed him:
21 With whom my hand will be established: mine arm also will strengthen him.
22 The enemy will not exact upon him; nor the son of evil afflict him.
23 I will beat down his foes before his face, and plague them that hate him.
24 But my faithfulness and my mercy will be with him: and in my name will his horn be
exalted.
25 I will set his hand also in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers.
26 He will cry to me, you are my father, my God, and the rock of my rescue.
27 Also I will make him my firstborn, higher than the kings of the earth.
28 My mercy will I keep for him for evermore, and my covenant will stand fast with
him.
29 His seed also will I make to endure always, and his throne as the days of
heaven.
30 If his children forsake my law, and walk not in my judgments;
31 If they break my rules, and keep not my commandments;
32 Then will I visit their wrongdoing with the rod,
and their iniquity with stripes.
33 Nevertheless my love will I not utterly take from him,
nor suffer my faithfulness to fail.
34 My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips.
35 Once have I sworn by my holiness that I will not lie to David.
36 His seed will endure always, and his throne as the sun before me.
37 It will be established always as the moon, and as a faithful witness in heaven.
Selah.
38 But you have cast off and abhorred, you have been angry with your anointed.
39 You have made void the covenant of your servant: you have profaned his crown by
casting it to the ground.
40 You have broken down all his hedges; you have brought his strong holds to ruin.
41 All that pass by the way spoil him: he is a reproach to his neighbours.
42 You have set up the right hand of his adversaries;
you have made all his enemies to rejoice.
43 You have also turned the edge of his sword, and have not made him to stand in the
battle.
44 You have made his glory to cease, and cast his throne down to the ground.
45 The days of his youth have you shortened: you have covered him with shame..
46 How long, Lord? will you hide yourself always? will your anger burn like fire?
47 Remember how short my time is: why have you made all men in useless?
48 What man is he that lives, and will not see death?
shall he deliver his soul from the hand of the grave? Selah.
49 Lord, where are your former lovingkindnesses, which you swore to David in your
truth?
50 Remember, Lord, the reproach of your servants; how I do bear in my bosom the reproach
of all the mighty people;
51 With which your enemies have reproached, oh Lord;
with which they have reproached the footsteps of your anointed.
52 Blessed be the Lord for evermore. Amen, and Amen.
