Psalm 107

1 oh give thanks to the Lord, for he is good: for his mercy endures always.
2 Let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom he has redeemed from the hand of the
enemy;
3 Gathered them out of the lands, from the east, and from the west, from the north,
and from the south.
4 They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way; they found no city to live in.
5 Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them.
6 Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their
distresses.
7 He led them forth by the right way, that they might go to a city of habitation.
8 Oh that men would thank the Lord for his goodness,
and for his wonderful works to the children of men!
9 For he satisfies the longing soul, and fills the hungry soul with goodness.
10 Such as sit in darkness and in the shadow of death,
being bound in affliction and iron;
11 Because they rebelled against the words of God, and contemned the counsel of the most
High:
12 Therefore he brought down their heart with labour;
they fell down, and there was none to help.
13 Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he saved them out of their
distresses.
14 He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death,
and brake their bands in sunder.
15 Oh that men would thank the Lord for his goodness,
and for his wonderful works to the children of men!
16 For he has broken the gates of brass, and cut the bars of iron in sunder.
17 Fools because of their wrongdoing, and because of their wrongs,
are afflicted.
18 Their soul abhorrs all manner of meat; and they draw near to the gates of death.
19 Then they cry to the Lord in their trouble, and he saves them out of their
distresses.
20 He sent his word, and healed them, and delivered them from their destructions.
21 Oh that men would thank the Lord for his goodness,
and for his wonderful works to the children of men!
22 Let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving,
and declare his works with rejoicing.
23 They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in great waters;
24 These see the works of the Lord, and his wonders in the deep.
25 For he commands, and raises the stormy wind, which lifts up the waves of it.
26 They mount up to the heaven, they go down again to the depths: their soul is melted
because of trouble.
27 They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and are at their wit’s end.
28 Then they cry to the Lord in their trouble, and he brings them out of their
distresses.
29 He makes the storm a calm, so that the waves of it are still.
30 Then are they glad because they be quiet; so he brings them to their desired
haven.
31 Oh that men would thank the Lord for his goodness,
and for his wonderful works to the children of men!
32 Let them exalt him also in the community of the people,
and praise him in the assembly of the elders.
33 He turns rivers into a wilderness, and the watersprings into dry ground;
34 A fruitful land into barrenness, for the evil of them that live in it.
35 He turns the wilderness into a standing water, and dry ground into watersprings.
36 There he makes the hungry to live, that they may prepare a city for habitation;
37 Sow the fields, and plant vineyards, which may yield fruits of increase.
38 He blesses them also, so that they are multiplied greatly;
and suffers not their cattle to decrease.
39 Again, they are diminished and brought low through oppression, affliction,
and sorrow.
40 He pours contempt upon princes, and causes them to wander in the wilderness,
where there is no way.
41 Yet setts he the poor on high from affliction, and makes him families like a
flock.
42 The good will see it, and rejoice: and all wrong will stop her mouth.
43 Whoever is wise, and will observe these things, even they will understand the
lovingkindness of the LORD.
