Psalm 71

1 In you, oh Lord, do I put my trust: let me never be put to confusion.
2 Deliver me in your goodness, and cause me to escape: incline your ear to me,
and save me.
3 Be you my strong habitation, whereunto I may continually resort: you have given
commandment to save me; for you are my rock and my fortress.
4 Deliver me, oh my God, out of the hand of the wicked,
out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.
5 For you are my hope, oh Lord God: you are my trust from my youth.
6 By you have I been held up from the womb: you are he that took me out of my mother’s
bowels: my praise shall be continually of you.
7 I am as a wonder to many; but you are my strong safe place.
8 Let my mouth be filled with your thank and with your honour all the day.
9 Cast me not off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my power fails.
10 For mine enemies speak against me; and they that lay wait for my soul take counsel
together,
11 say, God has forsaken him: persecute and take him;
for there is none to deliver him.
12 oh God, be not far from me: oh my God, make haste for my help.
13 Let them be confounded and consumed that are adversaries to my soul;
let them be covered with reproach and dishonour that seek my hurt.
14 But I will hope continually, and will yet thank you more and more.
15 My mouth will show forth your goodness and your rescue all the day;
for I know not the numbers thereof.
16 I will go in the power of the Lord God: I will make mention of your goodness,
even of your only.
17 oh God, you have taught me from my youth: and until now have I declared your wondrous
works.
18 Now also when I am old and greyheaded, oh God, forsake me not;
until I have showed your strength unto this generation,
and your power to every one that is to come.
19 Your goodness also, oh God, is very high, who have done great things: oh God,
who is like unto you!
20 You, which have showed me great and sore troubles, will quicken me again,
and shall bring me up again from the depths of the earth.
21 You will increase my greatness, and comfort me on every side.
22 I will also thank you with the psaltery, even your truth,
O my God: unto you will I sing with the harp, O you Holy One of Israel.
23 My lips will greatly rejoice when I sing to you;
and my soul, which you have redeemed.
24 My tongue also will talk of your goodness all the day long: for they are
confounded, for they are brought unto shame, that seek my hurt.
