Psalm 18

1 I will love you, oh Lord, my power.
2 The Lord is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer;
my God, my strength, in whom I will trust; my buckler, and the horn of my salvation,
and my high tower.
3 I will call upon the Lord, who is worthy to be praised: so will I be saved from mine
enemies.
4 The sorrows of death compassed me, and the floods of wicked men made me afraid.
5 The sorrows of hell compassed me about: the snares of death prevented me.
6 In my distress I called upon the Lord, and cried to my God: he heard my voice out of
his temple, and my cry came before him, even into his ears.
7 Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations also of the hills moved and were
shaken, because he was angry.
8 There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his mouth devoured: coals
were kindled by it.
9 He bowed the heavens also, and came down: and darkness was under his feet.
10 He rode upon a cherub, and did fly: yea, he did fly upon the wings of the wind.
11 He made darkness his secret place; his pavilion round about him were dark waters and
thick clouds of the skies.
12 At the brightness that was before him his thick clouds passed,
hail stones and coals of fire.
13 The Lord also thundered in the heavens, and the Highest gave his voice;
hail stones and coals of fire.
14 Yea, he sent out his arrows, and scattered them;
and he shot out lightnings, and discomfited them.
15 Then the channels of waters were seen, and the foundations of the world were
discovered at your rebuke, O LORD, at the blast of the breath of your nostrils.
16 He sent from above, he took me, he drew me out of many waters.
17 He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from them which hated me: for they were too
strong for me.
18 They prevented me in the day of my calamity: but the Lord was my stay.
19 He brought me forth also into a large place; he delivered me,
because he delighted in me.
20 The Lord rewarded me according to my goodness;
according to the cleanness of my hands has he recompensed me.
21 For I have kept the ways of the Lord, and have not wickedly departed from my God.
22 For all his judgments were before me, and I did not put away his rules from me.
23 I was also upright before him, and I kept myself from mine wrong.
24 Therefore has the Lord recompensed me according to my goodness,
according to the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight.
25 With the kind you will show yourself kind;
with an upright man you will show yourself upright;
26 With the pure you will show yourself pure; and with the froward you will show yourself
froward.
27 For you will save the hurt people; but will bring down high looks.
28 For you will light my candle: the Lord my God will enlighten my darkness.
29 For by you I have run through a troop; and by my God have I leaped over a wall.
30 As for God, his way is perfect: the word of the Lord is tried: he is a buckler to all
those that trust in him.
31 For who is God save the Lord? or who is a rock save our God?
32 It is God that girds me with power, and makes my way perfect.
33 He makes my feet like hinds’ feet, and setts me upon my high places.
34 He teaches my hands to war, so that a bow of steel is broken by mine arms.
35 You have also given me the shield of your rescue: and your right hand has held me
up, and your gentleness has made me great.
36 You have enlarged my steps under me, that my feet did not slip.
37 I have pursued mine enemies, and overtaken them: neither did I turn again till they
were consumed.
38 I have wounded them that they were not able to rise: they are fallen under my
feet.
39 For you have girded me with power to the battle: you have subdued under me those
that rose up against me.
40 You have also given me the necks of mine enemies;
that I might destroy them that hate me.
41 They cried, but there was none to save them: even to the Lord,
but he answered them not.
42 Then did I beat them small as the dust before the wind: I did cast them out as the
dirt in the streets.
43 You have delivered me from the strivings of the people;
and you have made me the head of the heathen: a people whom I have not known shall serve
me.
44 As soon as they hear of me, they will obey me: the strangers will submit themselves
unto me.
45 The strangers will fade away, and be afraid out of their close places.
46 The Lord lives; and blessed be my rock; and let the God of my rescue be
exalted.
47 It is God that avenges me, and subdues the people under me.
48 He delivers me from mine enemies: yea, you lift me up above those that rise up against
me: you have delivered me from the violent man.
49 Therefore will I give thanks to you, oh Lord, among the nations,
and sing praises unto your name.
50 Great deliverance gives he to his king; and shows mercy to his anointed, to David,
and to his seed for evermore.
