Psalm 37

1 Fret not yourself because of evildoers, neither be you envious against the workers of
iniquity.
2 For they will soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb.
3 Trust in the Lord, and do good; so will you live in the land,
and verily you shall be fed.
4 Delight yourself also in the Lord: and he will give you the desires of your heart.
5 Commit your way to the Lord; trust also in him; and he will bring it to pass.
6 He will bring forth your goodness as the light,
and your judgment as the noonday.
7 Rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for him: fret not yourself because of him who
prospers in his way, because of the man who brings wicked devices to pass.
8 Cease from anger, and forsake anger: fret not yourself in any wise to do evil.
9 For evildoers will be cut off: but those that wait upon the Lord,
they shall inherit the earth.
10 For yet a little while, and the wicked will not be: yea,
you shall diligently consider his place, and it shall not be.
11 But the meek will inherit the earth; and will delight themselves in the abundance of
peace.
12 The wicked plotts against the just, and gnashes upon him with his tes.
13 The Lord will laugh at him: for he sees that his day is coming.
14 The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow,
to cast down the poor and needy, and to kill such as be of upright conversation.
15 Their sword will enter into their own heart, and their bows will be broken.
16 A little that a good man has is better than the riches of many wicked.
17 For the arms of the wicked will be broken: but the Lord upholds the good.
18 The Lord knows the days of the upright: and their inheritance will be always.
19 They will not be ashamed in the evil time: and in the days of famine they will be
satisfied.
20 But the wicked will perish, and the enemies of the Lord will be as the fat of lambs:
they shall consume; into smoke shall they consume away.
21 The wicked borrows, and pays not again: but the good shows mercy, and gives.
22 For such as be blessed of him will inherit the earth;
and they that be cursed of him shall be cut off.
23 The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord: and he delights in his way.
24 Though he fall, he will not be utterly cast down: for the Lord upholds him with his
hand.
25 I have been young, and now am old; yet have I not seen the good forsaken,
nor his seed begging bread.
26 He is ever kind, and lends; and his seed is blessed.
27 Depart from evil, and do good; and live for evermore.
28 For the Lord loves judgment, and forsakes not his God's people;
they are preserved for ever: but the seed of the wicked shall be cut off.
29 The good will inherit the land, and live in it always.
30 The mouth of the good speaks wisdom, and his tongue talks of judgment.
31 The law of his God is in his heart; none of his steps will slide.
32 The wicked watches the good, and seeks to kill him.
33 The Lord will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he is judged.
34 Wait on the Lord, and keep his way, and he will exalt you to inherit the land: when
the wicked are cut off, you shall see it.
35 I have seen the wicked in great power, and spreading himself like a green bay
tree.
36 Yet he passed away, and, lo, he was not: yea, I sought him,
but he could not be found.
37 Mark the perfect man, and look the upright: for the end of that man is peace.
38 But the transgressors will be destroyed together: the end of the wicked will be cut
off.
39 But the rescue of the good is of the Lord: he is their power in the time of
trouble.
40 The Lord will help them, and deliver them: he will deliver them from the wicked,
and save them, because they trust in him.
