Psalm 68

1 Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered: let them also that hate him flee before
him.
2 As smoke is driven away, so drive them away: as wax melts before the fire,
so let the wicked perish at the presence of God.
3 But let the good be glad; let them rejoice before God: yea,
let them exceedingly rejoice.
4 Sing to God, sing praises to his name: extol him that rids upon the heavens by his
name JAH, and rejoice before him.
5 A father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows,
is God in his holy habitation.
6 God setts the solitary in families: he brings out those which are bound with chains:
but the rebellious live in a dry land.
7 oh God, when you went forth before your people, when you did march through the
wilderness; Selah:
8 The earth shook, the heavens also dropped at the presence of God: even Sinai itself was
moved at the presence of God, the God of Israel.
9 You, oh God, did send a plentiful rain, whereby you did confirm your inheritance,
when it was weary.
10 Your community has lived in it: you, oh God,
have prepared of your goodness for the poor.
11 The Lord gave the word: great was the company of those that published it.
12 Kings of armies did flee apace: and she that stayed at home divided the spoil.
13 Though you have lien among the pots, yet will you be as the wings of a dove covered
with silver, and her feathers with yellow gold.
14 When the Almighty scattered kings in it, it was white as snow in Salmon.
15 The hill of God is as the hill of Bashan; an high hill as the hill of Bashan.
16 Why leap you, you high hills? this is the hill which God desires to live in;
yea, the LORD will live in it for ever.
17 The chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands of angels: the Lord is among
them, as in Sinai, in the holy place.
18 You have ascended on high, you have led captivity captive: you have received gifts for
men; yea, for the rebellious also, that the LORD God might live among them.
19 Blessed be the Lord, who daily loads us with benefits, even the God of our rescue.
Selah.
20 He that is our God is the God of rescue; and to God the Lord belong the issues
from death.
21 But God will wound the head of his enemies, and the hairy scalp of such an one as
goes on still in his trespasses.
22 The Lord said, I will bring again from Bashan, I will bring my people again from the
depths of the sea:
23 That your foot may be dipped in the blood of your enemies,
and the tongue of your dogs in the same.
24 They have seen your goings, oh God; even the goings of my God, my King,
in the sanctuary.
25 The singers went before, the players on instruments followed after;
among them were the damsels playing with timbrels.
26 Bless you God in the congregations, even the Lord, from the fountain of Israel.
27 There is little Benjamin with their ruler, the princes of Judah and their council,
the princes of Zebulun, and the princes of Naphtali.
28 Your God has commanded your power: strengthen, oh God,
that which you have wrought for us.
29 Because of your temple at Jerusalem will kings bring presents to you.
30 Rebuke the company of spearmen, the multitude of the bulls,
with the calves of the people, till every one submit himself with pieces of silver:
scatter you the people that delight in war.
31 Princes will come out of Egypt; Ethiopia will soon stretch out her hands to
God.
32 Sing to God, you kingdoms of the earth; oh sing praises to the Lord;:
33 To him that rids upon the heavens of heavens, which were of old;
lo, he does send out his voice, and that a mighty voice.
34 Ascribe you power to God: his excellency is over Israel,
and his strength is in the clouds.
35 oh God, you are terrible out of your holy places: the God of Israel is he that gives
strength and power unto his people. Blessed be God.
